
The Cheat 1.0b
by Chaz McGarvey


WHAT THE CHEAT IS:

The Cheat is a small, easy-to-use utility that grants you the ability to ultimately "cheat" another application at runtime.  The most obvious use is for games.  With the help of The Cheat, you can instantly replenish your life, raise your score, give yourself more time, or almost anything else you might need done in a game you are stuck at.


HOW DO YOU USE THE CHEAT:

First, select the program you want to cheat from the list of processes.  Then choose the type and size of the variable you want to change using the popup menus.  Since The Cheat will have no idea which variable you want to change or where it is, you're going to have to search for it before you can change it.  Enter the current value of the variable you want to change in the search text field and push "Search."  The Cheat will report what it found.  If there are multiple hits, you should search for the variable again after it has changed in the game.  Ideally, you would keep searching until there was only one possible location for the variable to be, and then you would change it.  If you have searched a million times but there are still more than one results, you can still change the variables one by one or all at the same time if you want (just select the variables from the list on the right).  Be careful when doing this if there are very many hits because of the obvious possibility that you might change something that ought not have been changed.  If you are searching for a variable and it keeps reporting 0 hits, you may have chosen the wrong type of variable of the game might have incorporated some type of anti-cheat features.  Usually even those can be cheated with enough patience, however.


HOW DOES THE CHEAT WORK:

The basic ideas of which The Cheat is based on are not new.  There have been many utilities for all of the major platforms that work the same as The Cheat.  But it has been hard to find a good "cheater" for Mac OS X until I wrote The Cheat, though I know of at least one other similar utility which only supports integers.  This little gem uses "undocumented" BSD-level functions to bypass the protected memory system Mac OS X uses in order to mess around with the memory of other programs.  A game's variables (amount of life, time left, strength, special abilities, etc.) are somewhere in its own section of memory.  It's simply a matter of finding where a certain variable is stored and changing it to whatever we want.


ANYTHING ELSE YOU SHOULD KNOW:

The Cheat is currently beta software.  It is _not_ optimized (it's not running as fast as it could), and I can't even guarantee that it works.  I would like The Cheat to be the best it can be, though, so if you have any suggestions or bug fixes or success stories or funny jokes, please send them to me.  That's the only way The Cheat will be able to improve.  As for the future, The Cheat will be optimized by 1.0, and I hope to have as many bugs squashed as possible.  I think I'll even include a decent Read Me and hopefully I'll have an icon.


VERSION HISTORY:

1.0b1 (9/4/03) - First public version.


CONTACT ME:

Chaz McGarvey

Email: chaz@brokenzipper.com
iChat: ChazMP

http://www.brokenzipper.com/


IF YOU ARE FEELING CHARITABLE:

I will probably take donations if you feel I'm worth it.  Rest assured, it will be put to good use on a programming book or something.  School is keeping me busy, but a little light reading on the side never killed anyone.

Also, I need an icon if any of you happen to be Photoshop gurus.  I have no idea what it should look like, so good luck if you want to help me in that area.  I would also be ecstatic if any of you could translate The Cheat (and I suppose the final Read Me) into additional languages, as I quite am languistically challenged.


LEGAL STUFF:

Basically, don't sue me if you think my software broke something of yours because I need to finish school and that would just not be cool.  Oh yeah, and The Cheat is copyrighted material, which means I own it and you can't steal it.  But it's free, so I don't know why anybody would do that.  Anyway, have a nice day.
